---
layout: page
subheadline:  "Toto, I've a feeling we are not in Kansas anymore..."
title:  "My foray into the ___ of scientific computing"
teaser: "Spoiler: Biology and Computation conferences have different demographics"
categories:
    - science
tags:
    - science
    - open science
    - conferences
    - python
    - first time
header: no
image:
    title: blog/contemplating.jpg
    caption: Contemplating the benthos.
---
{: .t60 }

Well, how do I feel about scipy2016? A mixture would be a good way to describe it.


The good:

There is nothing quite like spending a week totally immersed in your favorite topics. The tutorials were fantastic-- particular props to https://twitter.com/ericmjl for his fantastic intro to

Great people who are passionate about open source.

The bad:

Scipy2016 has a mysogeny problem. A women (or lack of women) problem. A diversity problem. I am not sure what the solution is-- but all I can say is that coming from the fluffy, feminine life sciences that the way that I experienced interactions and networking was hugely different.

I am new to the community-- I know that I don't have the typical buffer that
I know that I don't have a huge community here, but I did not feel particularly welcomed within the community-- or heard-- except by other women / POC

This conference also really drove home to me the fact that the vast majority of Open Source program for python presented at this conference were written and developed by white men.

I am glad that the diversity committee exists. I am glad that they provide scholarships for travel to the conference. I am glad that there was a diversity luncheon. I am glad that I am joining a lab that values diversity and the points of view that are brought with said diversity.

I think I might have been spoiled by my time in the life sciences. My friends and colleagues in other disciplines have hinted at their frustration-- but I don't think I really got it until #SciPy2016.

Sexism still exists in science contrary to earlier studies: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/02/opinion/sunday/academic-science-isnt-sexist.html?smid=nytcore-iphone-share&smprod=nytcore-iphone&mtrref=undefined&gwh=DCBAD9BB4198D68A33E3695AB5586940&gwt=pay&assetType=opinion&_r=0

see this rebutal: http://phylogenomics.blogspot.com/2014/10/the-flawed-and-offensive-logic-of.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=twitter&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+TheTreeOfLife+%28The+Tree+of+Life%29

"They lump together what one could call "career progression" topics (such as pay, promotion, publishing, citation, etc) with workplace topics (hostility and physical aggression against women)."

And here: https://storify.com/phylogenomics/some-responses-to-my?utm_source=embed_header

Moral of the story: things might look like they are improving from a bird's eye view-- stats on hiring etc. The game on the ground is different.

Basically, the meeting left me wondering:

If I were a man, would have I have met more people? Made more collaborations?

If I were a man, would I have felt more comfortable at the social events?

I don't know.

Also, being told that 10% women is "pretty good" doesn't help. Even if it is well meaning!

https://gist.github.com/jiffyclub/c1c75641b50a9370bb144f5623e177c4

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/SciPy2016?src=hash">#SciPy2016</a> we have to talk. Our community is not without sexism.</p>&mdash; Matt Davis ✌ (@jiffyclub) <a href="https://twitter.com/jiffyclub/status/754070789553463297">July 15, 2016</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>


{% include list-posts tag='header' %}
